.TH GRID-SESSION 1
.SH NAME
grid: session \- graphical interface for configuring tasks using
.IR grid-cpu (4)
and
.IR grid-ns (1)
resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grid/session
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Session
allows the user to build up a single namespace from various different namespace resources and configure a set of commands to be executed within this namespace. The execution then takes place on one or more selected
.IR grid-cpu (4)
resources.
.PP
Once started, 
.IR session
presents a heirarchical view of currently registered resources (such as
.IR grid-ns (1))
which export a Styx (see
.IR intro (5))
namespace. The top level displays the type of resource e.g. 
.BR 'CPU resource' , 
whilst the second level shows the name of each individual resource. Descending futher down the tree will reveal the attributes of the selected resource. To mount a resource and see the namespace it exports, click mouse button 3 on the resource name. The view will switch to a split pane view displaying the resource namespace with directories listed on the left and all files in the current directory displayed on the right.
.PP
Clicking mouse button 3 on a file or directory will cause it to be added to the 
.I command
or
.I namespace
list at the bottom of the window. Mouse button 3 is again used on items in either of these lists to display a menu containing the name of the resource on which they are located as well as the option to remove them. The
.B Cmd
and
.B Ns
buttons located at the top of the window toggle the view between the selected commands and the selected namespace. The 
.B Resources
button returns to the initial view containing the currently registered resources and
.B Refresh
updates the list in case any resources have been added or removed.

.SS The Command List
This contains a list of all commands to be executed. Any arguments may be entered by clicking on the gap after
.IR args :
and typing into the box. Commands will be executed in order from top (first) to bottom (last).

.SS The Namespace List
This contains a list of all the directories to be imported in order to create the local namespace of the selected 
.IR grid-cpu (4)
resource(s). By default, several directories will be imported from the local machine. To select these, click button 3 on
.B import local namespace
and (un)check the directories as required. To toggle this option on and off, click button 1 on
.B import local namespace.
These default directories are required by many commands for normal execution so it is recommended that they are not disabled unless they are definitely not needed. Importing a directory of the same name as one of the default directories will automatically overwrite the default. Therefore, it is not necessary to disable a default directory if the same name is to be imported from elsewhere.
.PP
A given directory can only be imported once so it is not possible, for example, to import
.B /usr/inferno
from two different machines.
.I Session
will automatically import the directories containing each of the selected commands but any others required must be explicitly imported. For example: If one of the commands is:
.PP
.EX
	/usr/inferno/runme.dis -f /appl/lib
.EE
.PP
.I Session
will import
.B /usr/inferno/
but
.B /appl/lib
would have to be specified in the namespace list.
.SS Execution
Once the command and namespace lists have been configured, click 
.B Ok
on the 
.I Session
window. This will bring up the 
.IR grid-query (1)
window containing a list of the available
.IR grid-cpu (4)
resources. To select one or more of these for execution, click on the name with button 3 and it will be added to the list. If a specific
.IR grid-cpu (4)
resource is not required, click button 3 on
.B CPU resource
and select the number you require by clicking on the number following the list entry and dragging the mouse up or down.
.PP
Once the required
.IR grid-cpu  (4)
resources have been selected, click
.B Ok
and execution will commence.


.SH SOURCE
.B /appl/grid/session.b
.br
.B /appl/grid/ns.b
.br
.B /appl/grid/monitor.b
.br
.B /appl/grid/query.b
.br
.B /appl/grid/lib/browse.b
.br
.B /appl/grid/lib/srvbrowse.b

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR grid-query (1),
.IR registries (2)
.IR grid-ns (1),
.IR grid-cpu (4),
.IR registry (4)
